Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/Python_API_exclusives.md

# OpenVINO™ Python API Exclusives {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_Python_API_exclusives}

> OpenVINO™ Runtime Python API offers additional features and helpers to enhance user experience. Main goal of Python API is to provide user-friendly and simple yet powerful tool for Python users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenVINO™ Runtime Python API offers additional features and helpers to enhance user experience. The main goal of Python API is to provide user-friendly and simple yet powerful tool for Python users.
```

## Easier Model Compilation 

> The `CompiledModel` can be easily created with use of the helper. It hides `Core` creation and applies `AUTO` device by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CompiledModel` can be easily created with the helper method. It hides the creation of `Core` and applies `AUTO` inference mode by default.
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py auto_compilation

## Model/CompiledModel Inputs and Outputs

Besides functions aligned to C++ API, some of them have their Python counterparts or extensions. For example, `Model` and `CompiledModel` inputs/outputs can be accessed via properties.

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py properties_example

Refer to Python API documentation on which helper functions or properties are available for different classes.

## Working with Tensor

Python API allows passing data as tensors. The `Tensor` object holds a copy of the data from the given array. The `dtype` of *numpy* arrays is converted to OpenVINO™ types automatically.

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py tensor_basics

### Shared Memory Mode

> The `Tensor` objects can share the memory with *numpy* arrays. By specifying a `shared_memory` argument, a `Tensor` object does not perform copy of data and has access to the memory of the *numpy* array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Tensor` objects can share the memory with *numpy* arrays. By specifying the `shared_memory` argument, the `Tensor` object does not copy data. Instead, it has access to the memory of the *numpy* array.
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py tensor_shared_mode

## Running Inference

Python API supports extra calling methods to synchronous and asynchronous modes for inference.

All infer methods allow users to pass data as popular *numpy* arrays, gathered in either Python dicts or lists.

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py passing_numpy_array

Results from inference can be obtained in various ways:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py getting_results

### Synchronous Mode - Extended

Python API provides different synchronous calls to infer model, which block the application execution. Additionally, these calls return results of inference:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py sync_infer

### AsyncInferQueue

Asynchronous mode pipelines can be supported with wrapper class called `AsyncInferQueue`. This class automatically spawns pool of `InferRequest` objects (also called "jobs") and provides synchronization mechanisms to control flow of the pipeline.

> Each job is distinguishable by a unique `id`, which is in the range from 0 up to number of jobs specified in `AsyncInferQueue` constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each job is distinguishable by a unique `id`, which is in the range from 0 up to the number of jobs specified in the `AsyncInferQueue` constructor.
```

> Function call `start_async` is not required to be synchronized, it waits for any available job if queue is busy/overloaded. Every `AsyncInferQueue` code block should end with `wait_all` function. It provides "global" synchronization of all jobs in the pool and ensure that access to them is safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `start_async` function call is not required to be synchronized - it waits for any available job if the queue is busy/overloaded. Every `AsyncInferQueue` code block should end with the `wait_all` function which provides the "global" synchronization of all jobs in the pool and ensure that access to them is safe.
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py asyncinferqueue

> #### Acquire Results from Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Acquiring Results from Requests
```

> After the call to `wait_all`, jobs and their data can be safely accessed. Acquiring of a specific job with `[id]` returns `InferRequest` object, which results in seamless retrieval of the output data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the call to `wait_all`, jobs and their data can be safely accessed. Acquiring a specific job with `[id]` will return the `InferRequest` object, which will result in seamless retrieval of the output data.
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py asyncinferqueue_access

#### Setting Callbacks

> Another feature of `AsyncInferQueue` is ability of setting callbacks. When callback is set, any job that ends inference, calls upon Python function. Callback function must have two arguments. First is the request that calls the callback, it provides `InferRequest` API. Second one being called "userdata", provides possibility of passing runtime values, which can be of any Python type and later used inside callback function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another feature of `AsyncInferQueue` is ability to setting callbacks. When callback is set, then any job that ends inference calls upon Python function. Callback function must have two arguments. First is the request that calls the callback, it provides `InferRequest` API. Second one, being called "userdata", provides possibility of passing runtime values. Those values can be of any Python type and later used inside callback function.
```

> Another feature of `AsyncInferQueue` is ability to setting callbacks. When callback is set, then any job that ends inference calls upon Python function. Callback function must have two arguments. First is the request that calls the callback, it provides `InferRequest` API. Second one, being called "userdata", provides possibility of passing runtime values. Those values can be of any Python type and later used inside callback function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another feature of `AsyncInferQueue` is the ability to set callbacks. When callback is set, any job that ends inference calls upon the Python function. The callback function must have two arguments: one is the request that calls the callback, which provides `InferRequest` API; the other is called "userdata", which provides the possibility of passing runtime values. Those values can be of any Python type and later used within the callback function.
```

The callback of `AsyncInferQueue` is uniform for every job. When executed, GIL is acquired to ensure safety of data manipulation inside the function.

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py asyncinferqueue_set_callback

### Working with u1, u4 and i4 Element Types

> Since OpenVINO™ supports low precision element types, there are few ways to handle them in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since OpenVINO™ supports low precision element types, there are a few ways to handle them in Python.
```

> To create an input tensor with such element types, you may need to pack your data in the new *numpy* array, which byte size matches original input size:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an input tensor with such element types, you may need to pack your data in the new *numpy* array, where the byte size matches the original input size:
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py packing_data

> To extract low precision values from a tensor into the *numpy* array you can use next helper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extract low precision values from a tensor into the *numpy* array, you can use the following helper:
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py unpacking

> ### Releasing the GIL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Releasing GIL
```

> Some functions in Python API release the Global Lock Interpreter (GIL) while running work-intensive code. It can help you achieve more parallelism in your application, using Python threads. For more information about GIL, refer to the Python documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some functions in Python API release the Global Lock Interpreter (GIL) while running work-intensive code. This can help you achieve more parallelism in your application, using Python threads. For more information about GIL, refer to the Python documentation.
```

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_python_exclusives.py releasing_gil

> > **NOTE**: While GIL is released, functions can still modify and/or operate on Python objects in C++. Thus, there is no reference counting. User is responsible for thread safety if sharing of these objects with another thread occurs. It can affect your code only if multiple threads are spawned in Python.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: While GIL is released, functions can still modify and/or operate on Python objects in C++. Hence, there is no reference counting. User is responsible for thread safety in case sharing of these objects with another thread occurs. It can affect code only if multiple threads are spawned in Python.
```

> > **NOTE**: While GIL is released, functions can still modify and/or operate on Python objects in C++. Hence, there is no reference counting. User is responsible for thread safety in case sharing of these objects with another thread occurs. It can affect code only if multiple threads are spawned in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: While GIL is released, functions can still modify and/or operate on Python objects in C++. Hence, there is no reference counting. You should pay attention to thread safety in case sharing of these objects with another thread occurs. It might affect code only if multiple threads are spawned in Python.
```
